[DOCS-1166][DOCS-880][DOCS-1167][DOCS-1168] Update automation docs (#1084)
wandb/docs: content/guides/core/automations/create-automations/webhook.md

---
menu:
  default:
    identifier: create-webhook-automations
    parent: automations
title: Create a webhook automation
weight: 3
---

This page shows how to create a webhook [automation]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/" >}}> ). To create a Slack automation, refer to [Create a Slack automation]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/create-automations/slack.md" >}}) instead.

At a high level, to create a webhook automation, you take these steps:
1. If necessary, [create a W&B secret]({{< relref "/guides/core/secrets.md" >}}) for each sensitive string required by the automation, such as an access token, password, or SSH key. Secrets are defined in your team settings.

> 1. [Add a webhook integration]({{< relref "#add-a-slack-channel" >}}) to define the webhook's endpoint and authorization details and grant the integration access to any secrets it needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create a webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}) to define the endpoint and authorization details and grant the integration access to any secrets it needs.
```

({{< relref "#add-a-slack-channel" >}}) this seems like the wrong ref

> 1. [Create the webhook automation]({{< relref "#create-slack-automation" >}}) to define the [event]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/automation-events.md" >}}) to watch for and the payload W&B will send. Grant the automation access to any secrets it needs for the payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create the automation]({{< relref "#create-an-automation" >}}) to define the [event]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/automation-events.md" >}}) to watch for and the payload W&B will send. Grant the automation access to any secrets it needs for the payload.
```
also seems like the wrong reference

> ## Connect to a webhook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a webhook
```

> A team admin can add a webhook connection to the team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A team admin can add a webhook for the team.
```

    If the webhook's access token is stored in a secret, you must _also_ complete the next step to specify the secret as the access token.
1. To verify that the W&B can connect and authenticate to the endpoint:
    1. Optionally, provide a payload to test. To refer to a secret the webhook has access to in the payload, prefix its name with `$`. This payload is only used for testing and is not saved. You configure an automation's payload when you [create the automation]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook-automation" >}}). See [Troubleshoot your webhook]({{< relref "#troubleshoot-your-webhook" >}}) to view where the secret and access token are specified in the `POST` request.
    1. Click **Test**. W&B attempts to connect to the webhook's endpoint using the credentials you configured. If you provided a payload, W&B sends it.

    If the test does not succeed, verify the webhook's configuration and try again. If necessary, refer to [Troubleshoot your webhook]({{< relref "#troubleshoot-your-webhook" >}}).

Now you can [create an automation]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook-automation" >}}) that uses the webhook.

## Create an automation

> After you [configure a webhook]({{< relref "#connect-to-a-webhook" >}}), select **Registry** or **Project**, then follow these steps to create an automation that connects to the webhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you [configure a webhook]({{< relref "#reate-a-webhook" >}}), select **Registry** or **Project**, then follow these steps to create an automation that triggers the webhook.
```

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab "Registry" %}}
A Registry admin can create automations in that registry. Registry automations are applied to all collections in the registry, including those added in the future.

1. Log in to W&B.
1. Click the name of a registry to view its details, 
1. To create an automation scoped to the registry, click the **Automations** tab, then click **Create automation**. An automation that is scoped to a registry is automatically applied to all of its collections (including those created in the future).

    To create an automation scoped only to a specific collection in the registry, click the collection's action `...` menu, then click **Create automation**. Alternatively, while viewing a collection, create an automation for it using the **Create automation** button in the **Automations** section of the collection's details page.
1. Choose the [**Event**]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/automation-events.md" >}}) to watch for.

    1. Fill in any additional fields that appear, which depend upon the event. For example, if you select **An artifact alias is added**, you must specify the **Alias regex**.
    
    Click **Next step**.

> 1. Select the team that owns the [webhook integration]({{< relref "#add-a-webhook-integration" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the team that owns the [webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook >}}).
```
we should not be calling this an integration - just webhook. Can we update this in the other places this was used?

> 1. Set **Action type** to **Webhooks**. then select the [webhook]({{< relref "#connect-to-a-webhook" >}}) to use.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Set **Action type** to **Webhooks**. then select the [webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}) to use.
```

1. If you configured an access token for the webhook, you can access the token in the `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` [payload variable]({{< relref "#payload-variables" >}}). If you configured a secret for the webhook, you can access it in the payload by prefixing its name with `$`. Your webhook's requirements are determined by the webhook's service.
1. Click **Next step**.
1. Provide a name for the automation. Optionally, provide a description. Click **Create automation**.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Project" %}}
A W&B admin can create automations in a project.

1. Log in to W&B and go to the project page.
1. In the sidebar, click **Automations**.
1. Click **Create automation**.
1. Choose the [**Event**]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/automation-events.md" >}}) to watch for.

    1. Fill in any additional fields that appear, which depend upon the event. For example, if you select **An artifact alias is added**, you must specify the **Alias regex**.

    1. Optionally specify a collection filter. Otherwise, the automation is applied to all collections in the project, including those added in the future.
    
    Click **Next step**.

> 1. Select the team that owns the [webhook integration]({{< relref "#add-a-webhook-integration" >}}).

Author: ```suggestion
1. Select the team that owns the [webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}).
```

> 1. Set **Action type** to **Webhooks**. then select the [webhook integration]({{< relref "#add-a-webhook-integration" >}}) to use. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Set **Action type** to **Webhooks**. then select the [webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}) to use. 
```

1. If your webhook requires a payload, construct it and paste it into the **Payload** field. If you configured an access token for the webhook, you can access the token in the `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` [payload variable]({{< relref "#payload-variables" >}}). If you configured a secret for the webhook, you can access it in the payload by prefixing its name with `$`. Your webhook's requirements are determined by the webhook's service.
1. Click **Next step**.
1. Provide a name for the automation. Optionally, provide a description. Click **Create automation**.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

## View and manage automations
{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab "Registry" %}}

> - Manage the registry's automations from the registry's **Automations** tab.

Author: ```suggestion
- Manage a registry's automations from the registry's **Automations** tab.
```

- Manage a collection's automations from the **Automations** section of the collection's details page.

From either of these pages, a Registry admin can manage existing automations:
- To view an automation's details, click its name.
- To edit an automation, click its action `...` menu, then click **Edit automation**.

> - To delete an automation, click its action `...` menu, then click **Delete automation**. Confiruation is required.

Reviewer 2: what does "configuration is required" mean here? I think we can get rid of that?

Author: Confirmation is required. Thanks!

> - To delete an automation, click its action `...` menu, then click **Delete automation**. Confiruation is required.

Author: ```suggestion
- To delete an automation, click its action `...` menu, then click **Delete automation**. Confirmation is required.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Project" %}}
A W&B admin can view and manage a project's automations from the project's **Automations** tab.

- To view an automation's details, click its name.
- To edit an automation, click its action `...` menu, then click **Edit automation**.

> - To delete an automation, click its action `...` menu, then click **Delete automation**. Confiruation is required.

Author: ```suggestion
- To delete an automation, click its action `...` menu, then click **Delete automation**. Confirmation is required.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

## Payload reference
Use these sections to construct your webhoook's payload. For details about testing your webhook and its payload, refer to [Troubleshoot your webhook]({{< relref "#troubleshoot-your-webhook" >}}).

### Payload variables
This section describes the variables you can use to construct your webhook's payload.

> | Variable | Details |

Reviewer 2: Is there any new content here? If there's not, what is the value in adding this here? It seems like if we want to list out the payload variables, we should have some additional information to provide users. Otherwise it's just content that gets out of date and has to be updated, with no added value.

Author: This is not new, but was previously in a different page (the Model Registry page this PR deletes). I've added some variables that were previously missing. When @noaleetz thought this was missing due to the Github UI, she asked for it to be reinstated!

| `${entity_name}`              | The name of the entity or team that owns the mutation that triggered the action.
| `${event_type}`               | The type of event that triggered the action. |
| `${event_author}`             | The user that triggered the action. |
| `${artifact_collection_name}` | The name of the artifact collection that the artifact version is linked to. |
| `${artifact_metadata.<KEY>}`  | The value of an arbitrary top-level metadata key from the artifact version that triggered the action. Replace `<KEY>` with the name of a top-level metadata key. Only top-level metadata keys are available in the webhook's payload. |
| `${artifact_version}`         | The [`Wandb.Artifact`]({{< relref "/ref/python/artifact/" >}}) representation of the artifact version that triggered the action. |
| `${artifact_version_string}` | The `string` representation of the artifact version that triggered the action. |
| `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` | The value of the access token configured in the [webhook integration]({{< relref "#add-a-webhook-integration" >}}), if an access token is configured. The access token is automatically passed in the `Authorization: Bearer` HTTP header. |

> | `${<SECRET>}` | If configured, the value of a secret configured in the [webhook integration]({{< relref "#add-a-webhook-integration" >}}). Replace `<SECRET>` with the name of the secret. |

Author: @ssisk These were previously missing.

> | `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` | The value of the access token configured in the [webhook integration]({{< relref "#add-a-webhook-integration" >}}), if an access token is configured. The access token is automatically passed in the `Authorization: Bearer` HTTP header. |
> | `${<SECRET>}` | If configured, the value of a secret configured in the [webhook integration]({{< relref "#add-a-webhook-integration" >}}). Replace `<SECRET>` with the name of the secret. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` | The value of the access token configured in the [webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}), if an access token is configured. The access token is automatically passed in the `Authorization: Bearer` HTTP header. |
| `${SECRET_NAME}` | If configured, the value of a secret configured in the [webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}). Replace `SECRET_NAME` with the name of the secret. |
```

1. [Create a webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}) to define the endpoint and authorization details and grant the integration access to any secrets it needs.
1. [Create the automation]({{< relref "#create-an-automation" >}}) to define the [event]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/automation-events.md" >}}) to watch for and the payload W&B will send. Grant the automation access to any secrets it needs for the payload.

## Create a webhook
A team admin can add a webhook for the team.

{{% alert %}}
If the webhook requires a Bearer token or its payload requires a sensitive string, [create a secret that contains it]({{< relref "/guides/core/secrets.md#add-a-secret" >}}) before creating the webhook. You can configure at most one access token and one other secret for a webhook. Your webhook's authentication and authorization requirements are determined by the webhook's service.
{{% /alert %}}

1. Log in to W&B and go to Team Settings page.
1. In the **Webhooks** section, click **New webhook**.
1. Provide a name for the webhook. 
1. Provide the endpoint URL for the webhook.

> 1. If the webhook requires a Bearer token, set **Access token** to the [secret]({{< relref "/guides/core/secrets.md" >}})that contains it. When running the webhook automation, W&B sets the `Authorization: Bearer` HTTP header to the access token, and you can access the token in the `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` [payload variable]({{< relref "#payload-variables" >}}).

Reviewer 3: See comment about avoiding using "run" in docs unless it refers to run objects.

```suggestion
1. If the webhook requires a Bearer token, set **Access token** to the [secret]({{< relref "/guides/core/secrets.md" >}}) that contains it. When using the webhook automation, W&B sets the `Authorization: Bearer` HTTP header to the access token, and you can access the token in the `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` [payload variable]({{< relref "#payload-variables" >}}).
```

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab "Registry" %}}
A Registry admin can create automations in that registry. Registry automations are applied to all collections in the registry, including those added in the future.

1. Log in to W&B.
1. Click the name of a registry to view its details, 
1. To create an automation scoped to the registry, click the **Automations** tab, then click **Create automation**. An automation that is scoped to a registry is automatically applied to all of its collections (including those created in the future).

    To create an automation scoped only to a specific collection in the registry, click the collection's action `...` menu, then click **Create automation**. Alternatively, while viewing a collection, create an automation for it using the **Create automation** button in the **Automations** section of the collection's details page.
1. Choose the [**Event**]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/automation-events.md" >}}) to watch for.

    1. Fill in any additional fields that appear, which depend upon the event. For example, if you select **An artifact alias is added**, you must specify the **Alias regex**.
    

>     Click **Next step**.

Reviewer 3: This is formatted oddly in the preview docs...I think the inlines are is messing up the desired format?

> 1. Choose the [**Event**]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/automation-events.md" >}}) to watch for.
> 
>     1. Fill in any additional fields that appear, which depend upon the event. For example, if you select **An artifact alias is added**, you must specify the **Alias regex**.
>     
>     Click **Next step**.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Choose the [**Event**]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/automation-events.md" >}}) to watch for. Fill in any additional fields that appear, which depend upon the event. For example, if you select **An artifact alias is added**, you must specify the **Alias regex**. Click **Next step**.
```

| `${artifact_version_string}` | The `string` representation of the artifact version that triggered the action. |
| `${ACCESS_TOKEN}` | The value of the access token configured in the [webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}), if an access token is configured. The access token is automatically passed in the `Authorization: Bearer` HTTP header. |
| `${SECRET_NAME}` | If configured, the value of a secret configured in the [webhook]({{< relref "#create-a-webhook" >}}). Replace `SECRET_NAME` with the name of the secret. |

### Payload examples
This section includes examples of webhook payloads for some common use cases. The examples demonstrate how to use [payload variables]({{< relref "#payload-variables" >}}).

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab header="GitHub repository dispatch" value="github" %}}

{{% alert %}}
Verify that your access tokens have required set of permissions to trigger your GHA workflow. For more information, [see these GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/repos/repos?#create-a-repository-dispatch-event). 
{{% /alert %}}

> Send a repository dispatch from W&B to trigger a GitHub action. For example, suppose you have workflow that accepts a repository dispatch as a trigger for the `on` key:

Reviewer 3: Since we're talking about an external file, might be useful to be overly specific (so as to not confuse this YAML-looking code snippet with the W&B automation YAML)

```suggestion
Send a repository dispatch from W&B to trigger a GitHub action. For example, suppose you have a GitHub workflow file that accepts a repository dispatch as a trigger for the `on` key:
```

- For more information about repository dispatch, see the [official documentation on the GitHub Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/repository-dispatch).

- Watch the videos [Webhook Automations for Model Evaluation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7j-Mtbo-E74&ab_channel=Weights%26Biases) and [Webhook Automations for Model Deployment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g5UiAFjM2nA&ab_channel=Weights%26Biases), which guide you to create automations for model evaluation and deployment. 

- Review a W&B [report](https://wandb.ai/wandb/wandb-model-cicd/reports/Model-CI-CD-with-W-B--Vmlldzo0OTcwNDQw), which illustrates how to use a Github Actions webhook automation for Model CI. Check out this [GitHub repository](https://github.com/hamelsmu/wandb-modal-webhook) to learn how to create model CI with a Modal Labs webhook. 

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab header="Microsoft Teams notification" value="microsoft"%}}

> Configure an ‘Incoming Webhook' to get the webhook URL for your Teams Channel by configuring. The following is an example payload:

Reviewer 3: Incomplete sentence for: "Configure an ‘Incoming Webhook' to get the webhook URL for your Teams Channel by configuring."

Author: Was inherited from the previous page -- fixed!

> Configure an ‘Incoming Webhook' to get the webhook URL for your Teams Channel by configuring. The following is an example payload:

Author: ```suggestion
This example payload shows how to notify your Teams channel using a webhook:
```
